Update monitoring docs to use the in-cluster monitoring stack (#2586)
codenvy/che-docs: modules/administration-guide/partials/proc_collecting-che-metrics-with-prometheus.adoc

.Prerequisites

> * An active `{orch-cli}` session with administrative permissions to the destination {orch-name} cluster. See {orch-cli-link}.
> 
> * An instance of {prod-short} running in {orch-name}.

Reviewer: Just in case if this section is only applicable to OpenShift and not vanilla Kubernetes, adding this suggestion to hardcode the attribute/variable values:

```suggestion
* Your organization's instance of {prod-short} is installed and running in Red Hat OpenShift.

* An active `oc` session with administrative permissions to the destination OpenShift cluster. See link:https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/{ocp4-ver}/cli_reference/openshift_cli/getting-started-cli.html[Getting started with the CLI].
```

* {prod-short} is exposing metrics on port `8087`. See xref:enabling-and-exposing-{prod-id-short}-metrics[Enabling and exposing {prod-short} server JVM metrics].

.Procedure

> . Create the ServiceMonitor for detecting the {prod-short} JVM metrics service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create the ServiceMonitor for detecting the {prod-short} JVM metrics service.
```

+
.ServiceMonitor
====
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes,+attributes,+macros"]
----
apiVersion: monitoring.coreos.com/v1
kind: ServiceMonitor
metadata:
  name: che-host
  namespace: {prod-namespace} <1>
spec:
  endpoints:
    - interval: 10s <2>
      port: metrics
      scheme: http
  namespaceSelector:
    matchNames:
      - openshift-devspaces
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app.kubernetes.io/name: devspaces
----
<1> The {prod-short} namespace. The default is `{prod-namespace}`.
<2> The rate at which a target is scraped.
====

> . Create a Role and RoleBinding to allow Prometheus view the metrics

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Create a Role and RoleBinding to allow Prometheus view the metrics.
```

+
.Role
====
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes,+attributes,+macros"]
----
kind: Role
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: prometheus-k8s
  namespace: {prod-namespace} <1>
rules:
  - verbs:
      - get
      - list
      - watch
    apiGroups:
      - ''
    resources:
      - services
      - endpoints
      - pods
----
<1> The {prod-short} namespace. The default is `{prod-namespace}`.
====

+
.RoleBinding
====
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes,+attributes,+macros"]
----
kind: RoleBinding
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: view-openshift-monitoring-prometheus-k8s
  namespace: {prod-namespace} <1>
subjects:
  - kind: ServiceAccount
    name: prometheus-k8s
    namespace: openshift-monitoring
roleRef:
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
  kind: Role
  name: prometheus-k8s
----
<1> The {prod-short} namespace. The default is `{prod-namespace}`.
====

. Allow the in-cluster Prometheus instance to detect the ServiceMonitor in the {prod-short} namespace.
+

> ====

Reviewer: Looks like this example syntax is unnecessary here:
```suggestion
```

----

> oc label namespace {prod-namespace} openshift.io/cluster-monitoring=true

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ oc label namespace {prod-namespace} openshift.io/cluster-monitoring=true
```

oc label namespace {prod-namespace} openshift.io/cluster-monitoring=true
----

> ====

Reviewer: Looks like this example syntax is unnecessary here:
```suggestion
```

.Verification

> . In the *Administrator* view of the OpenShift web console, navigate to *Observe* -> *Metrics* from the sidebar menu on the left.

Reviewer: Our style guide recommends avoiding positional references in the UI like "the sidebar menu on the left", also IBM Style advises avoiding "navigate":
```suggestion
. In the *Administrator* view of the OpenShift web console, go to *Observe* -> *Metrics*.
```

. Run a PromQL query to confirm that the metrics are available. For example, enter `process_uptime_seconds{job="che-host"}` and click *Run queries*.
+

> For more information, see link:https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/first_steps/#using-the-expression-browser[Using the expression browser].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For more information, see the Prometheus documentation about link:https://prometheus.io/docs/introduction/first_steps/#using-the-expression-browser[Using the expression browser].
```

Author: On second thought, I think we should remove this line, I can make a new commit

[TIP]
====

If the metrics are not available, view the Prometheus container logs for possible RBAC-related errors.

Get the Prometheus pod name:
```
$ oc get pods -l app.kubernetes.io/name=prometheus -n openshift-monitoring -o=jsonpath='{.items[*].metadata.name}'
prometheus-k8s-0
```
According to the output above, there is a Prometheus pod named `prometheus-k8s-0`.

To print the last 20 lines of the Prometheus container logs from the `prometheus-k8s-0` pod:
```
$ oc logs --tail=20 prometheus-k8s-0 -c prometheus -n openshift-monitoring
```

> ====

Reviewer: WDYT?
```suggestion
[TIP]
====

To troubleshoot missing metrics, view the Prometheus container logs for possible RBAC-related errors:

. Get the name of the Prometheus pod:
+
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes"]
----
$ oc get pods -l app.kubernetes.io/name=prometheus -n openshift-monitoring -o=jsonpath='{.items[*].metadata.name}'
----

. Print the last 20 lines of the Prometheus container logs from the Prometheus pod from the previous step:
+
[source,yaml,subs="+quotes"]
----
$ oc logs --tail=20 __<prometheus_pod_name>__ -c prometheus -n openshift-monitoring
----

====
```

[role="_additional-resources"]
.Additional resources

> * link:https://prometheus.io/docs/prometheus/latest/configuration/configuration/[Configuring Prometheus]

Reviewer: In case you also need to remove this link like you removed it in `proc_collecting-dev-workspace-operator-metrics-with-prometheus.adoc`.
```suggestion
```

Author: Oops, thank you!
